Attention Is All You Need
Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszkoreit, Llion Jones, Aidan N. Gomez, Lukasz Kaiser, Illia Polosukhin
NeurIPS 2017

Abstract
The dominant sequence transduction models are based on complex recurrent or
convolutional neural networks that include an encoder and a decoder. The best
performing models also connect the encoder and decoder through an attention
mechanism. We propose a new simple network architecture, the Transformer,
based solely on attention mechanisms, dispensing with recurrence and convolutions
entirely. Experiments on two machine translation tasks show these models to
be superior in quality while being more parallelizable and requiring significantly
less time to train. Our model achieves 28.4 BLEU on the WMT 2014 English-
to-German translation task, improving over the existing best results, including
ensembles, by over 2 BLEU. On the WMT 2014 English-to-French translation task,
our model establishes a new single-model state-of-the-art BLEU score of 41.8 after
training for 3.5 days on eight GPUs, a small fraction of the training costs of the
best models from the literature.

1 Introduction
Recurrent neural networks, long short-term memory and gated recurrent neural networks in
particular, have been firmly established as state of the art approaches in sequence modeling and
transduction problems such as language modeling and machine translation. Recurrent models
typically factor computation along the symbol positions of the input and output sequences,
precluding parallelization within training examples. Attention mechanisms have become an integral
part of compelling sequence modeling and transduction models, allowing modeling of dependencies
without regard to their distance in the input or output sequences. In this work we propose the
Transformer, a model architecture eschewing recurrence and instead relying entirely on an attention
mechanism to draw global dependencies between input and output.

2 Model Architecture
Most competitive neural sequence transduction models have an encoder-decoder structure. The
Transformer follows this overall architecture using stacked self-attention and point-wise, fully
connected layers for both the encoder and decoder. The encoder is composed of a stack of N=6
identical layers, each with two sub-layers: multi-head self-attention and a position-wise fully
connected feed-forward network. The decoder is also composed of a stack of N=6 identical layers,
with an additional third sub-layer performing multi-head attention over the encoder's output.

3 Why Self-Attention
We compare self-attention layers to recurrent and convolutional layers on total computational
complexity per layer, parallelizability, and path length between long-range dependencies.
Self-attention layers connect all positions with a constant number of sequentially executed
operations, whereas recurrent layers require O(n) sequential operations.

4 Training
We trained on the standard WMT 2014 English-German dataset consisting of about 4.5 million
sentence pairs, and the larger WMT 2014 English-French dataset consisting of 36M sentences.
Sentences were encoded using byte-pair encoding. We trained our models on one machine with 8
NVIDIA P100 GPUs. Base models were trained for 100,000 steps or 12 hours.

5 Results
On the WMT 2014 English-to-German translation task, the big transformer model outperforms
the best previously reported models (including ensembles) by more than 2.0 BLEU, establishing a
new state-of-the-art BLEU score of 28.4. On the WMT 2014 English-to-French translation task,
our big model achieves a BLEU score of 41.8, outperforming all of the previously published single
models, at less than 1/4 the training cost of the previous state-of-the-art model.

6 Conclusion
In this work, we presented the Transformer, the first sequence transduction model based entirely
on attention, replacing the recurrent layers most commonly used in encoder-decoder architectures
with multi-headed self-attention. We are excited about the future of attention-based models and
plan to apply them to other tasks involving input and output modalities other than text.

References
[1] Dzmitry Bahdanau, Kyunghyun Cho, and Yoshua Bengio. Neural machine translation by jointly
learning to align and translate. ICLR, 2015.
[2] Kyunghyun Cho et al. Learning phrase representations using RNN encoder-decoder for
statistical machine translation. EMNLP, 2014.
[3] Sepp Hochreiter and Jurgen Schmidhuber. Long short-term memory. Neural Computation, 1997.
[4] Minh-Thang Luong, Hieu Pham, and Christopher D. Manning. Effective approaches to
attention-based neural machine translation. EMNLP, 2015.
[5] Ilya Sutskever, Oriol Vinyals, and Quoc V. Le. Sequence to sequence learning with neural
networks. NeurIPS, 2014.
